So QEM 3.8 27 billion parameter local AI model has been out for a few days now and I've been
testing it to see what it is capable of and I've been surprised on how well it is performing
especially compared to the models that we had what just a few weeks ago this is another major step
change in what you can achieve locally on local hardware without having to send everything up into
the cloud that's the topic of today's video so if you want to find out more please let me explain
so quen 3.8 is a 27 billion parameter model now it's full size at 16-bit floating point numbers
it's a 55 gigabyte download and you're probably going to need 128 gigabytes of ram to run it which
is beyond what most people have that's vram beyond what most people have kind of at home even with a
a very good gaming setup. However if you do have something like an RTX 5090 or something else with
32 gigabytes of VRAM then the 4-bit quantized version of Qen 3.8 27 billion is runnable on your
local PC and actually at a fairly decent rate I was getting 96 tokens a second running it on an
RTX 5090. That means you can run it locally on your PC and do everything you'd want to do with
a normal large language model out in the cloud but now you're running it locally and I've been
testing it specifically for how good is it at you doing coding using open code as the coding harness.
But first let's start with a few simple things. Does it answer the Alice question? Yes it does,
no problem as you would expect. Does it handle the seven minute egg timer and the 11 minute
egg timer question. Yes it does. No problem. So now those are out the way we can kind of get a feel
for the kind of capabilities of this model. Let's push it a little further. The first thing I did
because I wanted a bit of fun was to get to create a Space Invaders game using a single HTML file
using inline JavaScript and no external libraries. So this is just had to create everything itself
inside of the HTML file. It did that. It produced me index.html. You can double click it and you
get a nice Space Invaders game. So I wanted to push it a bit more. So I used my protocol
encoding type length value encoding question, asked it to create a specification similar to ASN1,
similar to Google's protobuf. Now it created that specification, no trouble. There were a few tiny
mistakes in it. It did all the specification defining how the protocol should be laid out,
but then at the very end it gives some working examples this is what happens if you want to
encode an integer this is what happens if you want to encode a string and actually one of those or
two of those had a minor error in the numbers it was telling you that you should use so the
examples it was giving didn't actually quite work out but if you fix those no problem whatsoever
so I then went on to say well now implemented including testing including end-to-end testing
unit testing and so on and I did open code let it run a few times I had to interact with it telling
it you know here's a plan this is what you should do now go ahead and do it and just as you would do
with normal coding with a harness and it worked perfectly it gave me a nice little library that
could implement the specification including some end-to-end testing including some unit tests
worked absolutely fine so my big test after that as i've done in several other videos here
on this channel is my new scrippy programming language so the idea is i just give it a
example of the of the new scripting language and even define it formally I tell it a little bit
about it like it doesn't use semicolons I tell it it's an interpreter and I tell it it's written in
C and I say go ahead knock yourself out go and write the interpreter for this language now that's
quite a tall order because there's no formal specification for the language just an example
code and a lot of the stuff it has to kind of infer from the example code infer from what I've
said in the bit of text. Now I've tried this before in other videos and really local models
weren't able to do it even QEN 3.6 they weren't able to do it they kind of either got stuck in a
loop just not being able to finish it or what they produced crashed all the time had severe memory
leaks it was a bit of a disaster. However the amazing news is here is in a relatively short
amount of time certainly wasn't even overnight just a few hours again a few promptings there
was a plan and then we went through the different steps on how to implement it and then you know i
said also write some documentation and i told it all the stuff back and forth as you would with a
coding harness it worked absolutely worked you can run new scrippy you it created its own set of test
scripts to run as well and the example script that i gave it for the readme file that runs and so
there you go this local llm running on a pc quen 3.8 was able to do all of that coding using open
code you could use other harnesses as well i'm sure haven't tested them specifically but i'm
sure it'll be just as good and it did it all for me and it actually works so this is really amazing
that we've reached this point and i'm sure things are going to get better but this is amazing that
we've reached this point for local llms just the power and the capabilities that they have okay i'd
to hear your thoughts in the comments have you tried quen 3.8 do you use a local ai for coding
or do you only rely on the big models do you not do any coding on it love to hear your thoughts
in the comments below okay that's it i'll see in the next one
